Jifty(3)              User Contributed Perl Documentation             Jifty(3)



NNAAMMEE
       Jifty -- Just Do It

DDEESSCCRRIIPPTTIIOONN
       Yet another web framework.

       WWhhaatt''ss ccooooll aabboouutt JJiiffttyy?? ((BBuuzzzzwwoorrddss))


       DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself)
           Jifty tries not to make you say things more than once.

       Full-stack
           Out of the proverbial box, Jifty comes with one way to do every-
           thing you should need to do: One database mapper, one templating
           system, one web services layer, one AJAX toolkit, one set of han-
           dlers for standalone or FastCGI servers. We work hard to make all
           the bits play well together, so you don't have to.

       Continuations
           With Jifty, it's easy to let the user go off and do something else,
           like fill out a wizard, look something up in the help system or go
           twiddle their preferences and come right back to where they were.

       Form-based dispatch
           This is one of the things that Jifty does that we've not seen any-
           where else. Jifty owns your form rendering and processing. This
           means you never need to write form handling logic. All you say is
           "I want an input for this argument here" and Jifty takes care of
           the rest. (Even autocomplete and validation)

       A Pony
           Jifty is the only web application framework that comes with a pony.

       IInnttrroodduuccttiioonn

       If this is your first time using Jifty, Jifty::Manual::Tutorial is
       probably a better place to start.

MMEETTHHOODDSS
       nneeww PPAARRAAMMHHAASSHH

       This class method instantiates a new "Jifty" object. This object deals
       with configuration files, logging and database handles for the system.
       Most of the time, the server will call this for you to set up your
       "Jifty" object.  If you are writing command-line programs htat want to
       use your libraries (as opposed to web services) you will need to call
       this yourself.

       See Jifty::Config for details on how to configure your Jifty applica-
       tion.

       _A_r_g_u_m_e_n_t_s

       no_handle
           If this is set to true, Jifty will not create a Jifty::Handle and
           connect to a database.  Only use this if you're about to drop the
           database or do something extreme like that; most of Jifty expects
           the handle to exist.  Defaults to false.

       ccoonnffiigg

       An accessor for the Jifty::Config object that stores the configuration
       for the Jifty application.

       llooggggeerr

       An accessor for our Jifty::Logger object for the application.

       hhaannddllee

       An accessor for the Jifty::Handle object that stores the database han-
       dle for the application.

       wweebb

       An accessor for the Jifty::Web object that the web interface uses.

LLIICCEENNSSEE
       Jifty is Copyright 2005 Best Practical Solutions, LLC.  Jifty is dis-
       tributed under the same terms as Perl itself.

SSEEEE AALLSSOO
       <http://jifty.org>

AAUUTTHHOORRSS
       Jesse Vincent, Alex Vandiver and David Glasser.



perl v5.8.7                       2005-12-25                          Jifty(3)
